- [Instructor] Embedded databases
are great for demo and PSC work.
But in the real world, we will use an external database.
With Spring Boot, it is a very simple process
to move to such a system.
Keep in mind once we do this change,
you will need to be running your database
in the background for the rest of this course.
The first thing that I want you to do is to navigate
to your bin directory.
Now these bash scripts are designed to be run
on Linux based systems.
So if your window is 10 environment, runs full Linux
and you have Docker installed they should work
there as well with a few minor modifications.
But what we're going to do is we're going to run
the start PostgreSQL shell script that I've written.
Now your output may be a little bit different
if you have to download the data.
But ultimately, what we want to see is a whole bunch
of insert statements to know that our database
is up and it's been primed.
And we primed it with the data that SQL file
in the schema.SQL file they're also located
in our bin directory.
So now that that's up and running, let's go to our ID.
In our ID, let's open up our room web app.
And let's start with our POM file.
We are going to get rid of the h2 database.
And instead we are going to put in the PostgreSQL
database.
Now we'll go ahead and let Maven run its thing.
And now that that is done,
let's go into our application.properties file
in source main resources.
We're going to go ahead and delete everything
except for our ddl statement.
We'll leave that first.
We're going to add a few other ones here.
So spring jpa database
equals PostgreSQL
spring data source
platform
also equals PostgreSQL.
Spring
data source
URL and this is how we define the remote URL.
In this case, we're going to do jdbc postgresql.
Now, it exists in this case at localhost
and it's the dev database within there.
So if you go back and look at that shell script
when I ran the Docker image, I opened up port 5432.
And that's the port that's PostgreSQL listens to
within the Docker image itself.
Of course, we could have changed all of that.
Now we're going to do a spring.datasource.username.
And again, this is defined in the shell script,
but we have the default value.
And a password that is also PostgreSQL.
Now, let's start up the application.
Our application has started.
Let's go to our web browser.
And once again, go to localhost 8080/rooms
and we loaded our data.
We've removed h2, so it can't be coming from there.
And to confirm that
we can go to the h2 console and you'll see
that it no longer exists.
That's because we've removed everything from the database
that originally was there and then embedded fashion
and are now connecting to our external database.
This time running in Docker on my local machine.
Now one more thing, just to make sure
that everything isn't broken.
Let's go to the terminal again.
Let's execute an HTTP
at 8080/API/rooms
and indeed it still pulls back the data as we would expect.
And that's all there is to connecting
to an external database versus an embedded database.
It's all controlled by properties
and what's on the classpath.